---
title: 'A brief introduction to Self-Supervised Learning'
date: '2021-09-22'
tags: ['machine learning']
featured: true
displayOrder: 0
summary: "Machine Learning is exciting, everyone talks about it, and everyone is recruiting ML engineers nowadays. But what does ML engineering really mean? How is it different from data engineering, data science, etc.? In this post, I'm going to walk you through some definitions of ML engineering."
socialImage: '/images/life/20210417_stockholm_slussen.jpeg'
---
Machine Learning (ML) is exciting. It's fun, challenging, creative, and intellectually stimulating. It also makes money for companies, autonomously tackles overwhemingly large tasks, and removes the budensome task of monotonous work from people who would rather be doing something else.

ML is also ludicrously complex. From thousands of algorithms, hundreds of open-source packages, and a profession of practitioners required to have a diverse skill set ranging from Data Engineering (DE) skills to advanced statistical analysis and visualization, the work required of a professional practitioner of ML is truly intimidating. Adding to that complexity is the need to be able to work cross functionally with a wide array of specialists, subject matter experts (SMEs), and business unit groups; communicating and collaborating on both the nature of the problem being solved and in the output of the ML-backed solution.

ML Engineering is the concept of applying a system around this staggering level of complexity. It is a set of standards, tools, processes, and methodology that aims to minimize the chances of abandoned, misguided, or irrelevant work being done in an effort to solve a business problem or need. It, in essence, is the roadmap to creating ML-based systems that can not only be deployed to production, but can be maintained and updated for years in the future, allowing businesses to reap the rewards in efficiency, profitability, and accuracy that ML in general has proven to provide (when done correctly).
